All right.
So up to this point we've only looked at HCM Al which is definitely needed we needed to actually put
stuff on the page but by itself it's very ugly we need CSX to style it and move things around and in
a line and add colors and background and anything else that has to do with layout and style.
So in this section we're going to look at all the basics of CSX.
So let's go ahead and create a new folder and just like we did with aged him out we're going to create
a sandbox.
So I'm going to call this CSX sandbox and these files will be in the lecture.
The Last Lecture the introduction if you want to download those or you can just create them along with
me.
So I'm going to open this with V.S. code.
So in Visual Studio code I'm just going to go ahead and open folder and open up CSF sandbox and we're
going to create in here a new file and I'm going to call this just we'll call it basic dot a 0 1 underscore
basic dot HD CML.
So I'm just numbering them so you know what order we're going in.
And again you don't have to number them.
And if you didn't watch the last section the H Al section we are using an extension called live server
so that we can open our each team all file in a little server and it will auto reload.
So you just want to install that if you don't have that yet.
All right.
I also went over some tips and tricks with shortcuts as well as Emmett which allows us to write faster
aged him out so we can actually do exclamation and hit enter or tab and it'll give us this basic HD
hymnal structure.
OK.
So in the title here I'm going to call this implementing CSX because I want to talk about the different
ways we can actually bring in CSX and we're going to look a little bit at selectors but we're going
to talk more about that in the next video.
So let's put some basic H Tim Allen here I'm going to put an H one and just say heading one and then
I'm going to copy this down by doing shift option or shift Ault on a Windows machine and then hit the
down arrow twice.
So this will be heading to and heading three and let's actually make this an H to make this an h three.
OK.
And I'm going to save this and then we're going to open with live server.
And right now I have this.
I haven't both.
You know the browser and the editor on the same screen.
But later on we're gonna have to make this bigger.
We're going to build a real web sites and stuff.
So we have three headings on the screen and I'm going to show you three different ways to implement
CSX.
The first is called inline CSX which is not something that you want to do but it is something you should
know and this is what we've been what we were doing in the last the last section.
The h him I'll section when I just wanted to show you a couple examples of stuff.
So we use the style tag and you can actually put CSX in here like let's say we want to use the color
property and we want to set that to red.
If I go ahead and save that the heading turns red.
Now you don't want to do this and the reason for that is you want to.
You want to keep.
It's called separation of concerns you want to keep your styling out of your markup.
You want to keep those two things separate.
And when you do it like this you're just clumping it all together.
It's much harder to read.
It's much harder to change.
It's just not good practice and any developer will give you crap for doing this.
So this is not something you want to do but it's something that you should know you can do.
All right.
So next one I want to show you is called internal CSX where it's still on the same page it's on this
HCM Al page but it's separate from your HMO the way that you do this is INSIDE YOUR HEAD tag.
You put in a style tag.
OK.
And then in here you can just put CSX now with when you're using CSX you need a way to select whatever
it is you want to style.
Let's say we want to change the color of this age.
Well we can use the actual element as the selector so I can say H2 and then open some curly braces and
I can put as many styles in here as I want.
So let's say we want color and let's let's add green and if I save that notice that it turns green.
All right.
Now let's go over this syntax really quick.
So if we take a look here I mean this is similar to what we just did except we use color instead of
background color.
But the first thing here is a selector in this case it's in a tag.
What we just did was we did the H1 than we did the H2 and you can use the actual tag as a selector but
you can also use I.D. classes there's something called pseudo selectors.
There's a lot of different things we can do for our selectors and we're going to get into that in the
next video as well as later on.
So that's the selector.
Then we have the declarations start.
We also have the declaration end.
So everything goes within these curly braces and inside the curly braces we have a property such as
background color or color as you just saw.
And then the value.
OK.
And in between that we have the property value separator which is a colon.
All right.
So you have the property and value and you can add more of these if we wanted to add a color we could
do that as well.
You just want to end each one with a semicolon.
So this is the basically the just a diagram of how CSX works.
So we've looked at two ways to add CSX line which you don't want to do and then internal.
And I'm just going to put a comment here and you can have comments in CSX as well.
If I hold down control and hit the question mark or forward slash you'll see that it adds in a forward
slash asterisk and ends with an asterisk.
Forward slash.
This is a CSX comment.
So in here I'm just going to say that this is internal CSX all right so going to save that and I'm going
to show you the third way which is external CSX where you actually have a separate file that you bring
in that has all your CSX.
So let's create a folder.
I'm going to go over here and I'm going to click the folder icon and call this folder CSX.
And in here let's create a file called style dot CSX.
That's a common name for a for main style sheet.
And you can include more than one style sheet if you want as well.
So now that we have a separate file let's start let's grab this h three right here.
So I'm going to use the H three element as a selector and I'm going to do color blue.
OK.
And we want to end that with a semicolon.
Now if I save this you'll notice that the the h three is not is not blue.
And the reason for that is this file has no clue that it's supposed to look at that that style dot CSX.
We actually have to bring that in.
And the way that we do that is with a link tag.
OK.
HDL has a link tag that we can use in the header.
So we'll say link and then we'll hit enter a tab and it gives us some necessary attributes such as Rel
this tells it basically what what type of link exists for a style sheet and then in a trap just like
with the tags.
This points to the location that we want to basically load which in our case is in the folder called
CSX.
And it's a file called style dot CSX.
So if I save this now you'll see that the H two three changes blue.
That's because we're now including this file.
OK if we don't have this if I comment this file out and save it's not going to read it.
So you want to make sure that you include your style sheets.
Now out of these three this is the preferred using an external CSX file when we build our projects when
we create a Web site all our CSX will be in a separate file.
However for this sandbox for this section I'm going to be doing it this way because I don't want for
a couple of reasons one reason I don't want to have to go back and forth to to go to my CSX.
I also want you guys to get a big picture of what's going on.
So I want you to see the HD Himmel and the CSX at the same time.
But usually you would do it this way you would have a separate file.
OK.
So just keep that in mind.
So in the next video we're going to start to look at how to use I.D. and classes for selectors how to
use multiple selectors nested selectors things like that.
So I will see you in the next video.